>> Speaker 1: We're gonna get started
with, first, the environment.
I think the environment is everything
that surrounds the development process.
It's not the actual dev process that we do
day to day, it's everything around that.
It's how you install your favorite
libraries, how you interact with your
operating system, get it the way you
want it to be, how you arrange windows,
how you arrange screens, or desktops,
or whatever you wanna call these things.
I'm not really sure what people call them.
I hear them called desktops.
I think that's probably good enough for
me,
even though I don't
technically have a desktop.
So I think that that works for
the most part.
All right, I think this is the most
important kind of starting place, which is
a question you have to ask yourself,
if I were to give you a brand new computer
today, how long does it take for you to
get up and running to be productive and
then furthermore, how many more days is
spent trying to realize that you have
certain things on one computer and now
you have to reconcile that entire thing.
And then over the course
of the next three days,
you install a whole list of just like
small little libraries that are really
useful or, I forgot to update my bash,
scripts to do this, or my zish, whatever,
my zish profile has this extra one little
remap in it that I forgot to bring over.
And I really like it.
And so all those things,
they just kinda add up.
And I don't ever want to
have to think about that.
I don't wanna have to think about it ever.
And I want something that's super
simple that I can understand.
I like that experience.
The first thing I used to use,
this is kind of like I used to use.
I showed again,
just as where I used to be,
cuz in the previous course on this,
this is what I used, which was Ansible.
For a long time, I used Ansible to manage
my dotfiles, to bring everything down.
I think it's actually pretty good.
There's a lot of great
things about Ansible,
and there's also things that
aren't as great about Ansible.
And so, here's some pros and
cons that I kind of threw up here.
If you've ever used Ansible,
there's a lot of documentation.
It's can be used more than just for
managing dot files.
Ansible vault actually is really cool.
Ansible vault, if you don't know what
it is, it allows you to effectively,
it's a two way encryption, so
you can encrypt and decrypt your files.
So that way, if you have, say, a bunch of
codes you want on for like your discord
recovery accounts, or all your recovery
codes, you could just put on a file,
encode it, and then push, put it on
GitHub, no one can decode it, unless,
if they have your super cool passwords,
it'll make a dumb password.
I know dolphins are awesome, but
dolphins is not a great password.
There's a bunch of other
cool stuff you can do.
It's also just terribly slow.
It just, because everything is assuming
this kind of remote relationship.
It's designed to work with servers and,
if you really think about it,
your computer might be a server.
So it can be just terribly slow and
it can also be just really hard for
certain tasks, I found that just
installing plugins for neovim.
It just took quite a few
tries to get the thing right,
and I just got tired of trying to do that.
And caching was kind of annoying.
Tags for being able to run certain tasks,
though a really great idea.
Once you have 100 tasks,
it's a pain in the ass,
because then you don't have
like that all task because.
Becomes really difficult and then you
just, you find yourself copying and
pasting and trying to figure out
why some things aren't running or
you just never even realize they don't run
and then you're very upset with yourself.
Also, YAML sucks.
I believe I can wholeheartedly say this,
me and
all Norwegians agree that YAML sucks.
And so if you don't know the joke,
no is also false in YAML.
And so Norway is often abbreviated XENO
and then it gets, turns into false.
Alright, basic Ansible.
So we're gonna create a basic script so
I can show you what it's about.
So that way you can at least try it out,
see how it feels.
And if you do like it and you want to use
this, then you can at least use this for
yourself.
We're gonna just simply bring down
Neo Vim and we are gonna Build it, and
we're going to put it in our path.
So if you're on Windows this part
might be a lot more difficult, and so
perhaps you can just as,
just like a watching experience.
You can just watch this.
But if you're on Mac or some sort of
Linux flavor, this should just work out.
Obviously there'll be some differences
with Mac, and because I'm on Linux,
there's gonna be some differences
I'm gonna use sudo apt install,
you may have to use brew install,
or whatever Mac uses, Mac ports.
So what is Ansible?
From there GitHub, it says Ansible is
a radically simple IT automation system.
It handles configuration management,
application deployment,
cloud provisioning, ad hoc task execution,
Network Automation.
And multi-node orchestration.
Ansible makes complex changes like
zero downtime rolling updates
with load balancers easy.
More information on the Ansible website.
So you're probably thinking,
aren't we talking about dot files?
And yes, we are.
As I said earlier,
if you really squint your eyes,
really look at your computer as squint
as possible, it's actually a server.
That's all it is.
It's a server too and
things work out that way.
All right, so by the way,
I know I put this in here last night,
so I already said this, but
do feel free just to watch this section.
It's just more of a learning
experience to see something else.
This is not my personal recommended way,
though I do think it's very interesting,
and it could be really useful if
you have to set up many computers.
If you are someone like I know there's
entire places, if you have a company in
which you want everyone to have very
similar experiences on multiple different
type of operating systems, this could be
very interesting to be able to be like,
hey, when you get here,
just do ansible-pull.
It's gonna set up everything.
Maybe it's a bit better than
just a A bunch of bash scripts.
Because I can bash scripts
can be kind of unwieldy.
Given the right circumstances,
people tend to hate them.
So if you wanna follow along,
do a little pip install Ansible.
Pip three, preferably if you're still
living that python two, seven dream life,
I would say you need to
wake up to the future.
Now, old man, it's everything's great,
now, python three is fantastic.
All right, so at the heart of Ansible,
you're usually working with
something called an inventory, and
inventory is usually like a list of nodes.
We're not gonna be working with that.
We are gonna be doing a local host,
and that's gonna be good enough.
And so we're only gonna be concerned
more about playbooks in which,
even in this we're not even gonna
be doing a lot with playbooks.
Question.
>> Speaker 2: Why not?
Apt instead of PIP-3.
>> Speaker 1: All right, I mean,
at this is kinda like some people
prefer their cucumbers pickled, right?
You can choose how you want to install it.
There's no prescribed way.
Anytime I can use that phrase,
it just makes me really happy.
And this is one of those times.
All right, a friend once said, this,
I don't actually know what this means, but
it seems really funny.
Ansible is the helicopter
that drops Godzilla.
Godzilla being Kubernetes.
So since, I just think it's funny to say,
I don't really know.
I don't actually even understand this.
It's just fantastic.
All right, so let's just jump right in and
start doing this.
So this would be your first playbook.
It's very simple.
So what we're gonna do is we are gonna
create a directory called MF Ansible or
whatever you wanna call it.
That stands for my first answerable,
not mother friendship Ansible.
It's a little bit different there.
So I'm gonna jump over here.
I'm gonna do a little maktor.
Let's actually, I probably I might have.
Yeah, I already have that.
Let's There we go.
Good, all right, now, hey, fresh system.
I've never done this before.
Let's just try it together.
This would be really fun.
So I'm gonna create a new
directory called MF Ansible, and
in here I'm gonna create a single
file called the neovim.yml.
All right, fantastic.
And with that,
I'm just gonna copy over this.
This is kind of like
the heading to a playbook.
It says, hey, here's the name of the task.
This is where we're gonna be executing
it on, obviously, local host.
And here's the list of tasks.
For those that can't really read YAML.
You don't have a lot of YAML experience,
I don't blame you.
It kind of looks funny to me too.
It's hard to remember when to use
dashes and where to use dashes and
all that fun stuff, but here we go.
We have something we can run now.
So with this put in into a YAML file,
we should be able to jump back here and
we can execute Ansible Playbook NeoVim.
And so you should probably
see the following output.
I'll just do this right here.
Here, there's a bunch of warnings
about me needing to update some stuff.
We're gonna ignore that,
because that's just who we are.
And there we go.
We just ran our first Ansible task.
Doesn't it feel good?
We did it.
We officially did nothing, successfully,
and it took a little bit, but we did it.
You'll may notice that how I said,
Ansible is a bit slow.
That's a lot of time spent doing nothing.
Can we agree to that?
If I put a little time in front of there,
we'll see how long it actually takes.
If you can see, it took 2.24 seconds user.
That's a lot of CPU.
We also use a lot of CPU to not do a lot.
So a total of 3.813, like...
Combined second.
So anyways, there you go.